What is MongoDB?
MongoDB is an open-source and NoSql database.
Its written in c++.
MongoDB is class-platform document oriented database that provides
* high performance
*easy scalability
*high avalability
Its works on the concepts of document and collection.

What's database?
database is a physical container for collection.
each databse gets its own set of files on the file system.
a single MongoDB server typically has multiple databases.

What's Collection?
Collection a group of documents.
Collection is similar to that of table in rdbms.
Collection exist within a database.
Collection does notenforce a schema.

What's document?
document is set of key-value pairs.
documents have dynamic schema, means the documents in the same 
collection do not need to have the same fields and structures.
all document in the collection are the similaror related purpose.

unique _id fields?
_id field is a 12 bytes hexadecimal number which assures the uniqueness
of every document.
_id can also be inserted manually.
first 4 bytes is for timestamp,
next 3 bytes is for machine _id,
next 2 bytes is for process _id,
next 3 bytes is for increment.

Advantages of using MongoDB
* any relational database has typical schema design that shows
number of tables and the relationship between these tables.
while in mongodb there is no such concept of relationship.

*mongoDb is schema-less-
documents in mongodb have a dynamic schema, that means it can differ
from one document to other. 

*No complex joins.

* structure of object is clear.

*Deep query-ability. - mongodb supports dynamic queries on documents
using document-based query language that's nearly as powerful as 
SQL.
*ease of scalability - is easy to scale

* mapping of application object with database object is not needed.

Why to MongoDB?
Data is stored in the form of JSON styled document.so it easy tored
and retrieve data.
index on attribute
Replication and high avalability
auto-sharding
rich queries
fast in-place update
proffesional support.

where to use mongodb?
Big data
CMS
User data management
data hub
mobile and social infrastructure


